---
id: crawler-2026-02-20-xo1681
title: "EFF’s Policy on LLM-Assisted Contributions to Our Open-Source Projects"
perex: "We recently introduced a policy governing large language model (LLM) assisted contributions to EFF's open-source projects. At EFF, we strive to produce high quality software tools, rather than simply generating more lines of code in less time. We now explicitly require that contributors understand t"
imageUrl: "https://www.eff.org/files/banner_library/coder-cat-2.png"
link: "https://www.eff.org/deeplinks/2026/02/effs-policy-llm-assisted-contributions-our-open-source-projects"
date: "2026-02-20"
author: "Samantha Baldwin"
tags: []
isHighlighted: false
type: article
source: rss
hasDetail: false
published: true
---

We recently introduced a policy governing large language model (LLM) assisted contributions to EFF's open-source projects. At EFF, we strive to produce high quality software tools, rather than simply generating more lines of code in less time. We now explicitly require that contributors understand the code they submit to us and that comments and documentation be authored by a human.
LLMs excel at producing code that looks mostly human generated, but can often have underlying bugs that can be replicated at scale. This makes LLM-generated code exhausting to review, especially with smaller, less resourced teams. LLMs make it easy for well-intentioned people to submit code that may suffer from hallucination, omission, exaggeration, or misrepresentation.
It is with this in mind that we introduce a new policy on submitting LLM-assisted contributions to our open-source projects. We want to ensure that our maintainers spend their time reviewing well thought out submissions. We do not completely outright ban LLMs, as their use has become so pervasive a blanket ban is impractical to enforce.
Banning a tool is against our general ethos, but this class of tools comes with an ecosystem of problems. This includes issues with code reviews turning into code refactors for our maintainers if the contributor doesn’t understand the code they submitted. Or the sheer scale of contributions that could come in as AI generated code but is only marginally useful or potentially unreviewable. By disclosing when you use LLM tools, you help us spend our time wisely.
EFF has described how extending copyright is an impractical solution to the problem of AI generated content, but it is worth mentioning that these tools raise privacy, censorship, ethical, and climatic concerns for many. These issues are largely a continuation of tech companies’ harmful practices that led us to this point. LLM generated code isn’t written on a clean slate, but born out of a climate of companies speedrunning their profits over people. We are once again in “just trust us” territory of Big Tech being obtuse about the power it wields. We are strong  advocates of using tools to innovate and come up with new ideas. However, we ask you to come to our projects knowing how to use them safely.
